---
author:
  - Alex Renkis
title:
source:
created: 2025-09-10T00:31:24+00:00
tags:
  - schwarzman
links:
---
My friend could not even remember his great-grandfather's name. As clouds of his Tennessee pipe tobacco filled the room, he described wandering through rows of identical headstones, searching for a grave that might as well have been anonymous. This was not mere forgetfulness; it was the inevitable outcome of a culture that isolates death and the elderly. Our shared visits to Buddhist monasteries had taught us to contemplate impermanence, yet here we witnessed how modern contexts made such reflection nearly impossible.

Recognizing this cultural gap around death and memory, we started ideating pragmatic solutions with philosophical implications. Scrawled Post-it notes lined the walls, but at first nothing seemed to stick. Given my friend's experience, we settled on an individual-level solution: a gravestone-attachable near-field communication tag to preserve one's informational legacy. While my friend seemed pleased, we nonetheless needed customer exposure to assess market fitness. Fortunately, my small prototype enabled our successful application to the National Science Foundation Regional Innovation Corps for intensive entrepreneurial training and customer discovery interviews.

The feedback was tough. Conversations with elderly individuals revealed implicit thanatophobia, as few people even mentioned their own death versus that of others. Selling directly to individuals seemed foolish in retrospect. Meanwhile, mortuary professionals described reluctance to manage physical products even with commercial upsides. They already struggled to navigate customer engagement and practices like cremation. The societal implications ultimately lagged questions of profit. I needed to meter my philosophical inclinations or risk alienating those I served. Whether listening to unspoken fears of the elderly or operational constraints of mortuary professionals, I learned to prioritize understanding over imposing solutions.

The criticism thus did not deter but impelled our curiosity. I began to develop a software solution from scratch geared towards organizations that leveraged geospatial technology and artificial intelligence to digitize entire burial sites. Refining the product unlocked partnership opportunities. Even with functioning software, the challenge remained to communicate the value to an aging, tech-averse crowd. Remembering the customer discovery interviews, we curtailed technical language and focused on business-level pain points. An outdoor tools company eventually licensed our software to build an industry-specific product for holding flags and wreaths. We later secured several pilot projects with cemeteries themselves, including the locally prestigious Nashville City Cemetery.

These wins were refreshing even at a distance. I had been working in Mexico as a Fulbright Scholar while actively developing our software on the side. Though separation may seem to spell disaster for founders, my experiences proved invaluable in molding the business. I discovered ample opportunities like taking innovation classes, interviewing founders for work, and bringing my startup to my university's entrepreneurship hub. However, the most significant breakthroughs involved first-hand cultural exposure to Mexican traditions. Day of the Dead mobilized the whole country to reconnect with late loved ones in cemeteries lined with marigolds, tissue paper, and sweet bread. Witnessing the Mexican emphasis on collective memory transformed our value proposition from individual to community legacies. As innovation evidently existed beyond the U.S., so too did this ancestral connection exist beyond Mexico. It just needed cultural adaptation to flourish. That realization revitalized our courage to present at a funeral industry trade show, where dozens of companies expressed purchase intentions.

With the first customers on the horizon and multiple investment offers, we incorporated under the name Kapala. The etymology symbolizes impermanence and occurs within both the Proto-Indo-European and Sino-Tibetan language branches. Like the word, I too strive to straddle distinct cultural contexts as a change-maker. Our platform has already preserved over 480,000 years of human history across digitized burial sites, yet this impact pales compared to what awaits in China. Though funerary practices are ubiquitous, Mexico and China arguably represent the strongest exemplars of ancestor devotion and dedicated holidays for cemetery visits. The former already shaped my trajectory, while the latter is the ideal next destination. Tomb-Sweeping Day and the Double Ninth Festival epitomize the ancestral connection Kapala seeks to kindle, while the Buddhist culture that has inspired the ethos pervades from the three teachings. The country's aging population and overcrowded urban cemeteries now demand death care solutions. Moreover, the coexistence of tradition and technology is unparalleled; I must connect with those who embody this nexus to realize my vision for cross-cultural memory preservation. Such inroads offered only by Schwarzman would both expand and compound my existing momentum. The journey thus far has tailored my approach toward initiative, perseverance, and adaptation across cultures. With Schwarzman sculpting my progression, I will ensure collective memory ultimately prevails rather than vanishing like smoke.